The 13th Waffen Mountain Division of the SS Handschar (1st Croatian) was a German mountain infantry division of the Waffen-SS during World War II.
Raised in the Independent State of Croatia, it was given the title Handschar after a fighting knife carried by Turkish policemen when the region was part of the Ottoman Empire. 
From March to December 1944, it fought a counter-insurgency campaign against communist-led Yugoslav Partisan resistance forces. 
At the Boston Marathon, American Meb Keflezighi wins the men''s race and Kenyan Rita Jeptoo (pictured) wins the women''s race.
An avalanche on Mount Everest kills sixteen Nepalese guides.
NASA ends the LADEE mission by intentionally crashing the spacecraft into the Moon.
Abdelaziz Bouteflika is re-elected President of Algeria.
Fifty-eight people are killed in an attack on a United Nations base in Bor, South Sudan, during an ongoing conflict.
Irish forces led by Brian Boru clashed with the Vikings in the Battle of Clontarf.
Charles II, King of England, Ireland, and Scotland was crowned at Westminster Abbey.
Batting against Vic Raschi of the St. Louis Cardinals, Hank Aaron (pictured) of the Milwaukee Braves hit the first of his record-setting 755 home runs in Major League Baseball.
In the midst of the Algerian War, French President Charles de Gaulle delivered a televised speech calling on military personnel and civilians to oppose a coup d''état attempt against him.
Activist Blair Peach suffered fatal head injuries when he was knocked unconscious during an Anti-Nazi League demonstration in Southall, London, against a National Front election meeting in the town hall.
Judges tried to ban a Charles Chaplin painting (example pictured) as they felt it was "too erotically suggestive".
Wild populations of the black rock scorpion are depleted due to collecting by the pet trade.
Dr. Edith Claypole died of typhoid while working on immunizations for WWI troops, even though she had been immunized herself.
GenePeeks'' Matchright software simulates reproduction to determine the likelihood of a child receiving a genetic disorder.
New Orleans blues / soul musician Rockie Charles was described as "The President of Soul".
The community of Fruitvale, Tennessee, developed around a railroad switch.
The temple of Apollo at Daphne, outside Antioch, is destroyed in a mysterious fire.
The Council of Chalcedon adopts the Chalcedonian Creed regarding the divine and human nature of Jesus Christ.
Emperor Kanmu relocates the Japanese capital to Heiankyo (now Kyoto).
The 1383-1385 Crisis in Portugal: King Fernando dies without a male heir to the Portuguese throne, sparking a period of civil war and disorder.
Foundation of Aguascalientes.
Battle of southern Fujian sea: The Ming dynasty defeats the Dutch East India Company.
Scilly naval disaster: four British Royal Navy ships run aground near the Isles of Scilly because of faulty navigation. Admiral Sir Cloudesley Shovell and thousands of sailors drown.
Construction of the Ladoga Canal is completed.
The College of New Jersey (later renamed Princeton University) receives its charter.
American Revolutionary War: American defenders of Fort Mercer on the Delaware River repulse repeated Hessian attacks in the Battle of Red Bank.
Russia founds a colony on Kodiak Island, Alaska.
Warriors of the Miami tribe under Chief Little Turtle defeat United States troops under General Josiah Harmar at the site of present-day Fort Wayne, Indiana, in the Northwest Indian War.
André-Jacques Garnerin makes the first recorded parachute jump from one thousand meters (3,200 feet) above Paris.
Sam Houston is inaugurated as the first President of the Republic of Texas.
The Great Anticipation: Millerites, followers of William Miller, anticipate the end of the world in conjunction with the Second Advent of Christ. The following day became known as the Great Disappointment.
Spain declares war on Morocco.
A plebiscite ratifies the annexion of Veneto and Mantua to Italy, occurred three days before, on October 19.
First telegraphic connection in Argentina.
Cuban Missile Crisis: US President John F. Kennedy, after internal counsel from Dwight D. Eisenhower, announces that American reconnaissance planes have discovered Soviet nuclear weapons in Cuba, and that he has ordered a naval "quarantine" of the Communist nation.
A BAC One-Eleven prototype airliner crashes in UK with the loss of all on board.
Jean-Paul Sartre is awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature, but turns down the honor.
Canada: A Multi-Party Parliamentary Committee selects the design which becomes the new official Flag of Canada.
The Supremes become the first all-female music group to attain a No. 1 selling album (The Supremes A'' Go-Go).
The Soviet Union launches Luna 12.
Apollo program: Apollo 7 safely splashes down in the Atlantic Ocean after orbiting the Earth 163 times.
Vietnam War: In Saigon, Henry Kissinger and South Vietnamese President Nguyen Van Thieu meet to discuss a proposed cease-fire that had been worked out between Americans and North Vietnamese in Paris.
The Soviet unmanned space mission Venera 9 lands on Venus.
Red Dye No. 4 is banned by the US Food and Drug Administration after it is discovered that it causes tumors in the bladders of dogs. The dye is still used in Canada.
Papal inauguration of Pope John Paul II.
The United States Federal Labor Relations Authority votes to decertify the Professional Air Traffic Controllers Organization for its strike the previous August.
Two correctional officers are killed by inmates at the United States Penitentiary in Marion, Illinois. The incident inspires the Supermax model of prisons.
Maurice Papon, an official in the Vichy France government during World War II, is jailed for crimes against humanity.
Tropical Storm Alpha forms in the Atlantic Basin, making the 2005 Atlantic Hurricane Season the most active Atlantic hurricane season on record with 22 named storms.
A Panama Canal expansion proposal is approved by 77.8% of voters in a National referendum held in Panama.
Raid on Anuradhapura Air Force Base is carried out by 21 Tamil Tiger commandos. All except one died in this attack. Eight Sri Lankan Air Force planes are destroyed and 10 damaged.
India launches its first unmanned lunar mission Chandrayaan-1.
The Australian Capital Territory becomes the first Australian jurisdiction to legalize same-sex marriage with the Marriage Equality Legislation Australian Capital Territory, 2013
Roman Emperor Elagabalus adopts his cousin Alexander Severus as his heir and receives the title of Caesar.
Roman Emperor Julian is killed during the retreat from the Sassanid Empire. General Jovian is proclaimed Emperor by the troops on the battlefield.
En no Ozuno, a Japanese mystic and apothecary who will later be regarded as the founder of a folk religion Shugendō, is banished to Izu Ōshima.
Western Schism: the Roman Catholic church is led into a double schism as Petros Philargos is crowned Pope Alexander V after the Council of Pisa, joining Pope Gregory XII in Rome and Pope Benedict XII in Avignon.
Francisco Pizarro is assassinated in Lima by the son of his former companion and later antagonist, Diego Almagro the younger. Almagro is later caught and executed.
Tsarevich Alexei Petrovich of Russia, Peter the Great''s son, mysteriously dies after being sentenced to death by his father for plotting against him.
After a siege and bombardment by cannon, Baku surrenders to the Russians.
A combined force Spanish, free blacks and allied Indians defeat a British garrison at the Siege of Fort Mose near St. Augustine during the War of Jenkins'' Ear.
End of the June Days Uprising in Paris.
The first investiture of the Victoria Cross in Hyde Park, London.
The Christian holiday of Christmas is declared a federal holiday in the United States.
Henri Moissan isolated elemental Fluorine for the first time.
French Grand Prix, the first Grand Prix motor racing event held
The 1907 Tiflis bank robbery took place in Yerevan Square, now Freedom Square, Tbilisi.
The Science Museum in London comes into existence as an independent entity.
The first U.S. troops arrive in France to fight alongside Britain and France against Germany in World War I.
World War I, Western Front: Battle for Belleau Wood – Allied Forces under John J. Pershing and James Harbord defeat Imperial German Forces under Wilhelm, German Crown Prince.
American occupying forces leave the Dominican Republic.
The Cyclone roller coaster opens on Coney Island.
President Franklin D. Roosevelt signs the Federal Credit Union Act, which establishes credit unions.
Initial flight of the Focke-Wulf Fw 61, the first practical helicopter.
World War II: under the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, the Soviet Union presents an ultimatum to Romania requiring it to cede Bessarabia and the northern part of Bukovina.
World War II: Soviet planes bomb Kassa, Hungary (now Košice, Slovakia), giving Hungary the impetus to declare war the next day.
The first flight of the Grumman F6F Hellcat.
Libya becomes independent from Italy. Idris I is proclaimed King of Libya.
Tangiwai disaster: In New Zealand''s North Island, at Tangiwai, a railway bridge is damaged by a lahar and collapses beneath a passenger train, killing 151 people.
NORAD Tracks Santa for the first time in what will become an annual Christmas Eve tradition.
Vietnam War: Viet Cong operatives bomb the Brinks Hotel in Saigon, South Vietnam to demonstrate they can strike an American installation in the heavily guarded capital.
A Canadair CL-44 chartered by the United States military crashes into a small village in South Vietnam, killing 129.
Apollo program: The crew of Apollo 8 enters into orbit around the Moon, becoming the first humans to do so. They performed 10 lunar orbits and broadcast live TV pictures that became the famous Christmas Eve Broadcast, one of the most watched programs in history.
Charles Manson is allowed to defend himself at the Tate-LaBianca murder trial.
Japan Airlines Flight 472, operated Douglas DC-8-53 landed at Juhu Aerodrome instead of Santacruz Airport in Bombay, India.
District of Columbia Home Rule Act is passed, allowing residents of Washington, D.C. to elect their own local government.
Cyclone Tracy devastates Darwin, Australia.
The first European Ariane rocket is launched.
Witnesses report the first of several sightings of unexplained lights near RAF Woodbridge, in Rendlesham Forest, Suffolk, England, United Kingdom, an incident called "Britain''s Roswell".
Air France Flight 8969 is hijacked on the ground at Houari Boumedienne Airport, Algiers, Algeria. Over the course of 3 days 3 passengers are killed, as are all 4 terrorists.
The Sid El-Antri massacre (or Sidi Lamri) in Algeria kills 50-100 people.
The Texas Seven hold up a sports store in Irving, Texas. Police officer Aubrey Hawkins is murdered during the robbery.
The Spanish police thwart an attempt by ETA to detonate 50 kg of explosives at 3:55 p.m. inside Madrid''s busy Chamartín Station.
Chad–Sudan relations: Chad declares a state of war against Sudan following a December 18 attack on Adré, which left about 100 people dead.
Lord''s Resistance Army, a Ugandan rebel group, begins a series of attacks on Democratic Republic of the Congo, massacring more than 400.
A man asked for a meal in a restaurant. 
The waiter brought the food and put it on the table. 
After a moment, the man called the waiter and said:
"Waiter! Waiter! 
There''s a fly in my soup!"
"Please don''t speak so loudly, sir," said the waiter, "or everyone will want one."
What is the longest word in the English language?
"Smiles". Because there is a mile between its first and last letters!
There are 5 birds in a tree. 
A hunter shoots 2 of them dead.
How many birds are left? 2 birds. 
The other 3 fly away!
An English teacher wrote these words on the whiteboard: "woman without her man is nothing". The teacher then asked the students to punctuate the words correctly.
The men wrote: "Woman, without her man, is nothing."The women wrote: "Woman! Without her, man is nothing."
The woman was in bed with her lover and had just told him how stupid her Irish husband was when the door was thrown open and there stood her husband.
He glared at her lover and bellowed, "What are you doing?" 
"There," said the wife, "didn''t I tell you he was stupid?"
What''s the definition of a pessimist? 
A pessimist is a well-informed optimist.
Mark called in to see his friend Angus (a Scotman) to find he was stripping the wallpaper from the walls. 
Rather obviously, he remarked "You''re decorating, I see." to which Angus replied "No. I''m moving house."
One day an Englishman, a Scotsman, and an Irishman walked into a pub together. 
They each bought a pint of Guinness. 
Just as they were about to enjoy their creamy beverage, three flies landed in each of their pints, and were stuck in the thick head.
The Englishman pushed his beer away in disgust. 
The Scotsman fished the fly out of his beer, and continued drinking it, as if nothing had happened.
The Irishman, too, picked the fly out of his drink, held it out over the beer, and started yelling, "SPIT IT OUT, SPIT IT OUT YOU BAS**RD!!!!"
A man was injected with a deadly poison, but, it did not kill him. Why?He was already dead!
A Scottish farmer was in his field digging up his tatties (a Scots word for potatoes). 
An American farmer looked over the fence and said "In Texas we grow potatoes 5 times larger than that!"
The Scotsman replied "Ah but we just grow them for our own mouths!"
1st Eskimo: Where did your mother come from?
2nd Eskimo: Alaska 
1st Eskimo: Don''t bother, I''ll ask her myself!
Charles was getting annoyed and shouted upstairs to his wife," Hurry up or we''ll be late."
"Oh, be quiet," replied his wife. 
"Haven''t I been telling you for the last hour that I''ll be ready in a minute?"
Five Englishmen boarded a train just behind five Scots, who, as a group had only purchased one ticket.
Just before the conductor came through, all the Scots piled into the toilet stall at the back of the car. 
As the conductor passed the stall, he knocked and called"Tickets, please!" and one of the Scots slid a ticket under the door. 
It was punched, pushed back under the door, and when it was safe all the Scots came out and took their seats.
The Englishmen were tremendously impressed by the Scots'' ingenuity.
On the trip back, the five Englishmen decided to try this themselves and purchased only one ticket.
They noticed that, oddly, the Scots had not purchased any tickets this time. 
Anyway, again, just before the conductor came through, the Scots piled into one of the toilet stalls, the Englishmen into the other.
Then one of the Scots leaned out, knocked on the Englishmen''s stall and called "Ticket, Please!" 
When the ticket slid out under the door, he picked it up and quickly closed the door.
Why did the bald man paint rabbits on his head?
Because from a distance they looked like hares!
An English man and an Irish man are driving head on , at night, on a twisty, dark road.
Both are driving too fast for the conditions and collide on a sharp bend in the road.
To the amazement of both, they are unscathed, though their cars are both destroyed.
In celebration of their luck, both agree to put aside their dislike for the other from that moment on.
At this point, the Englishman goes to the boot and fetches a 12 year old bottle of whisky.
He hands the bottle to the Irish man, whom exclaims,'' may the Irish and the English live together forever, in peace, and harmony.''
The Irish man then tips the bottle and gulps half of the bottle down. 
Still flabbergasted over the whole thing, he goes to hand the bottle to the Englishman, whom replies: '' no thanks, I''ll just wait till the Police get here!''
Why do cows have horns? Because their horns don''t work!
There was an Scotsman, an Englishman and Claudia Schiffer sitting together in a carriage in a train going through Wales.
Suddenly the train went through a tunnel and as it was an old style train,there were no lights in the carriages and it went completely dark.
Then there was this kissing noise and the sound of a really loud slap. 
When the train came out of the tunnel, Claudia Schiffer and the Scotsman were sitting as if nothing had happened and the Englishman had his hand against his face as he had been slapped.
The Englishman was thinking: ''The Scottish fella must have kissed Claudia Schiffer and she missed him and slapped me instead.
''Claudia Schiffer was thinking: ''The English fella must have tried to kiss me and actually kissed the Scotsman and got slapped for it.''
And the Scotsman was thinking: ''This is great. The next time the train goes through a tunnel I''ll make that kissing noise and slap that English b**tard again .
What kind of ears does an engine have?  Engineers
Jim was speeding along the road one fine day when the local policeman, a friend of his, pulled him over. 
"What''s wrong, Eric?" Jim asked.
"Well didn''t you know, Jim, that your wife fell out of the car about five miles back?" said Eric.
"Ah, praise God!" he replied with relief. "I thought I''d gone deaf!"
How do you count a herd of cattle?
With a cowculator.
A Scots boy came home from school and told his mother he had been given a part in the school play. 
"Wonderful," says the mother, "What part is it?"
The mother scowls and says: "Go back and tell your teacher you want a speaking part."
An Irishman had no idea his wife was having an affair, so he was mad with grief when coming home early one day he surprised her and her lover in the act.
He grabbed a pistol and pointed it at his head, which made his wife burst out laughing. 
"What do you think you''re laughing at," he cried, "you''re next."
Mike and his pregnant wife live on a farm in a rural area in the west of England.
No running water, no electricity, etc. 
One night, Mikes'' wife is begins to deliver the baby. 
The local doctor is there in attendance. 
"What d''ya want me to do, Doctor?"
"Hold the lantern, Mike. Here it comes!"the doctor delivers the child and holds it up for the proud father to see.
"Mike, you''re the proud father of a fine strapping boy." 
"Saints be praised, I..." 
Before Mike can finish the Doctor interrupts, "Wait a minute.Hold the lantern, Mike." Soon the doctor delivers the next child.
"You''ve a full set now, Mike. A beautiful baby daughter." "Thanks be to..." 
Again the Doctor cuts in, "Hold the lantern, Mike, Hold the lantern!" Soon the Doctor delivers a third child. 
The doctor holds up the baby for Mike''s inspection.
"Doctor," asks Mike, "Do you think it''s the light that''s attracting them?"
At an auction in Manchester a wealthy American announced that he had lost his wallet containing £10,000 and would give a reward of £100 to the person who found it.
From the back of the hall a voice shouted, "I''ll give £150!"
A customer ordered some coffee in a cafe.
The waitress arrived with the coffee and placed it on the table.
After a few moments, the customer called for the waitress.
"Waitress," he said, "there''s dirt in my coffee!". 
"That''s not surprising, sir, replied the waitress, "It was ground only half an hour ago."
Two Americans are talking. 
One asks: "What''s the difference between capitalism and communism?"
"That''s easy" says the other one.
"In capitalism man exploits man! In communism it is the other way around!"
An English man, Irishman and a Scottishman are sitting in a pub full of people.
The Englishman says, "The pubs in England are the best. 
You can buy one drink and get a second one free".
Everyone in the pub agreed and gave a big cheer. 
The Scottishman says,"..yeah. That''s quite good but in Scotland you can buy one drink and get another 2 for free."
Again, the crowd in the pub gave a big cheer. 